---
title: "Across 5.2.2 Release notes"
date: 2023-11-07T12:00:00+01:00
author: Davy
toc: true
draft: false
---

Small maintenance upgrade to make it possible to use Spring Boot 2.6
with Across 5.2, without completely rebuilding Across Framework and
Platform.

<!--more-->

## Bug fixes

Fixed an NPE which happens with Spring Boot 2.6.


## Using 5.2.2 with Spring Boot 2.5 or 2.6

The Across 5.2.x series is based on Spring Boot 2.4. With some work on
your side, you can already upgrade to Spring Boot 2.6 (but probably
not to 2.7: that will require more work in Across itself). Note that
Across 5.4 will be based on Spring Boot 2.6.

To make this possible, there is a new `across-platform-bom` maven
module to Across Platform. This is intended to put the application in
control of its our build, rather than Across.

Note this has disadvantages too: the tradeoff is: you are in control,
but you will have more work. It's analogous to the tradeoff between
inheriting from `spring-boot-starter-parent` vs importing
`spring-boot-dependencies`, which is discussed succinctly here:

https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot-dependency-management-custom-parent

To use this feature and switch to Spring Boot 2.6, replace this in
your top-level `pom.xml` file:

	<parent>
		<groupId>com.foreach.across</groupId>
		<artifactId>across-application-parent</artifactId>
		<version>5.2.1.RELEASE</version>
	</parent>

with:

	<parent>
		<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
		<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-parent</artifactId>
		<version>2.6.15</version>
	</parent>

and add this in the `<dependencyManagement>` section:

	<dependencyManagement>
		<dependencies>
			<dependency>
				<groupId>com.foreach.across</groupId>
				<artifactId>across-platform-bom</artifactId>
				<version>5.2.2.RELEASE</version>
				<type>pom</type>
				<scope>import</scope>
			</dependency>
		</dependencies>
	</dependencyManagement>

Essentially, this switches your application from using Across as your
"platform" (from a Maven perspective at least!) to:

- Spring Boot as your "platform".

- and Across Framework and the Platform modules as "just another set
  of libraries".

Compare this for instance with using the [JUnit
BOM](https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide/#running-tests-build-maven-bom). You'll
see it's quite similar.

Unless your team knows Maven well, I do *not* advise you to do
this. In fact, probably the only sensible time to use this, is if your
application is migrating away from Across.


## Upgrades

- Upgraded `ax-bootstrap-theme-module` and `ax-bootstrap-4-utilities`
  from `0.0.1.RC1` to `0.0.1.RELEASE`.

- Upgraded Spring Framework and Tomcat to their latest maintenance
  releases.
