---
title: "Across 5.3.0 Release notes"
date: 2024-01-11T12:00:00+01:00
author: Davy
draft: true
---

The one big change in `5.3` is that Across development has moved to an
[internal GitLab server](https://gitlab.isaac.nl/antwerpen/across/),
with the repositories also mirrored (publicly) to
[GitHub](https://github.com/ForeachOS).

The Across modules have been reorganized into a much smaller number of
git repositories, to speed up the release process. As a result of
this, there are a few small changes you need in your application.


<!--more-->

# Git repositories

From now on, you can find the Across repositories at:

- https://gitlab.isaac.nl/antwerpen/across/ (internal-only, for
  development)
- https://github.com/ForeachOS (public mirror, this is also in the SCM
  section of the `pom.xml` files.

The GitHub sync is live: it happens on every commit.

The number of repositories has been drastically reduced, because it
took way too much time to release each of these individual
repositories (almost two days for Across 5.2.1, even using the
(internal-only) Across Release Tool).

The following repositories still exists as before:

- `across-framework` (renamed from just `across`)
- `across-autoconfigure`
- `across-platform`

All of the standard modules have been merged into four repositories:

- `across-base-modules`: Low-level modules needed in pretty much every
  Across application:

		across-hibernate-module
		spring-security-module
		debug-web-module
		ehcache-module
		logging-module

- `across-entity-admin-modules`: Closely related modules, centered
  around the Across "crown-jewel" `entity-module`:

		ax-bootstrap-4-utilities
		ax-bootstrap-theme
		bootstrap-ui-module
		admin-web-module
		entity-module
		application-info-module
		properties-module

- `across-user-auth-modules`: Centered around the `user-module` and
  additional authentication modules:

		spring-security-acl-module
		user-module
		ldap-module
		oauth2-module

- `across-media-modules`: Media such as file/blob repositories (Amazon
  S3, SFTP server, ...) and images, and the Web CMS:

		file-manager-module
		imageserver-client
		imageserver-core
		imageserver-admin
		web-cms-module

Note that in the merged repositories, the history of all files has
been preserved: all modules were merged using
`--allow-unrelated-histories`.

The new release build script that comes with this can publish an
entire Across Framework + Standard modules + Platform release in less
than two hours. This order of magnitude improvement is key to make it
easier to upgrade Across in the future.


# Compatibility notes

## Virtually no changes

It is important to stress that `5.3.0` is essentially the same as
`5.2.2.RELEASE`. The main purpose of this release is to test out the
new Git repositories layout and the new release build script.


## Version number changes

We have dropped the `.RELEASE` suffix from the version numbers and
switched to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). This lines up
with Spring Framework and Spring Boot, who also dropped this
OSGI-style versioning in 5.3 and 2.4 respectively.

You'll need to be aware of this when adapting your application
`pom.xml` files: remember to remove the `.RELEASE` suffix as well.

The versions of all modules in the same repository have the same
version number now: after all, Git tags are per repository as
well. This gives:

	across-framework:            5.3.0
	across-autoconfigure:        2.3.0
	across-base-modules:         4.3.0
	across-entity-admin-modules: 4.3.0
	across-user-auth-modules:    4.3.0
	across-media-modules:        6.3.0
	across-platform:             5.3.0

BTW, another reason that some modules clearly belonged together, could
be seen in the version number: closely related modules often had the
same version numbers anyway.

It's important to state again: even if you see a big bump in a module
version, nothing has actually changed! FYI, the biggest version bumps are:

- `ax-bootstrap-theme` from `0.0.1` to `4.3.0`.
- `webcms-module` from `0.3.1` to `6.3.0`.


## Liquibase upgraded from 4.9.1 to 4.17.0

The GitLab CI/CD runners on Amazon were consistently failing because
of concurrency issues. To fix this, we needed the use new
`ThreadLocalScopeManager` introduced in this [Liquibase
PR](https://github.com/liquibase/liquibase/pull/3240).


## Image Server

The Maven `groupId` for the ImageServer modules has been changed from
`com.foreach.imageserver` to `com.foreach.across.modules`:

- A simple search&replace for those `groupId`s through your `pom.xml`
  should be sufficient to quickly and safely migrate. The Maven
  `artifactId`s are still the same.

- The Java package names have not been modified, and still start with
  `com.foreach.imageserver`, so there's nothing to change in your
  code.


## Removed modules

The following modules have been removed from `across-platform`:

- `spring-batch-module` (latest release: `2.2.1.RELEASE`): Only used
  in some legacy microservices: PDF generator, which will be replaced
  with an entirely different and much simpler implementation.

- `spring-mobile-module` (latest release: `3.2.1.RELEASE`) : Spring
  Mobile itself is end-of-life:
  https://spring.io/projects/spring-mobile

The previous releases of those modules will most likely continue to
work with this version of `across-platform`. You will have to manually
configure the version of those modules, most likely in your top-level
parent `pom.xml` file.


# Reproducible builds

Some minimal effort has been done to make the Across builds reproducible:

- This is needed for a secure software supply chain.

- But most importantly right now: this makes it far easier to `diff`
  and `diffoscope` on the build outputs while I was changing the build
  procedure.

For more info about reproducible builds and why they are important for
security, see:

- https://reproducible-builds.org/
- https://slsa.dev/
- https://maven.apache.org/guides/mini/guide-reproducible-builds.html
- https://diffoscope.org/


# Thanks

Big thanks to:

- the iO Eindhoven team for setting us up on their GitLab server.

- Arno for testing a snapshot build with a client application.
