---
title: "Across 5.5.0 Release notes"
date: 2024-04-30
author: Davy
toc: true
draft: true
---

Despite being a minor release, 5.5 is definitely *not* backward
compatible. You will almost certainly have to make adaptations
w.r.t. Spring Security, and thoroughly test that.

On the bright side, the upgrade to Spring Boot 2.7 means you can
upgrade to [Java
21](https://blogs.oracle.com/java/post/the-arrival-of-java-21) (at
least in theory, I haven't tested it).


<!--more-->

## Spring Security

By far the biggest impact in Across 5.5 is in the integration with
[Spring Security](https://spring.io/projects/spring-security) in the
{{< module-ref spring-security-module >}}. This also affects all
modules that do anything with Spring Security (configuration). It also
affects *ALL* applications, and at a very minimum, you will need to do
some serious testing whether authentication and authorization of HTTP
requests works correctly.


### Creating SecurityFilterChain beans

The first major change is that the `AcrossWebSecurityConfigurer`
interface (introduced in SpringSecurityModule 4.0.0, with Across
Platform 5.0) and related classes have been *deleted*. Spring Security
must be configured by creating `SecurityFilterChain` `@Bean`s, using
the instructions from the documentation:

https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/5.8/migration/servlet/config.html

or from the original blog:

https://spring.io/blog/2022/02/21/spring-security-without-the-websecurityconfigureradapter

The manual is more recent, so I recommend that.

Of course there is also an Across gotcha: this only works when the
`SecurityFilterChain` beans are all located in the Across
SpringSecurityModule. You need to ensure that everything which creates
a `SecurityFilterChain`, `UserDetailsService`, `WebSecurityCustomizer`
or basically any Spring Security related bean is in an
`@ModuleConfiguration`-annotated class that extends the `SpringSecurityModule` like this:

	@ModuleConfiguration(SpringSecurityModule.NAME)

Keep in mind that such an `@ModuleConfiguration` bean needs to be in a
module/application `extensions` package [to be picked up
automatically](https://foreach-across.github.io/ref-docs-5/across/developing-applications/extend-module-configuration.html#_module_extensions_with_moduleconfiguration). Make
sure to do this, otherwise you'll get into a very confusing situation!

For examples, you can check the following classes in Across:

	DebugWebSecurityConfiguration
	AdminWebSecurityConfiguration


### SecurityFilterChain order

If you are defining your own `SecurityFilterChain`s, you probably need
to control in which order the `SecurityFilterChain` are tried. You
will need to put an `@Order` on the `SecurityFilterChain` bean (not on
the `@ModuleConfiguration` annotated class!).

You can check the order of the `SecurityFilterBean`s using the {{<
module-ref debug-web-module >}}.


### Spring Security 5.8 instead of 5.7

We went straight to [Spring Security
5.8](https://spring.io/blog/2022/11/21/spring-security-5-8-and-6-0-are-now-ga),
whose main purpose is to provide a intermediate migration step to 6.0:

- https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/5.8/whats-new.html

- https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/5.8/migration/servlet/index.html

Note also that [Spring Security
5.8](https://spring.io/projects/spring-security#support) (and [Spring
Framework 5.3](https://spring.io/projects/spring-framework#support))
will receive updates until the end of August 2024.


### Spring Security Lambda DSL

Lastly, when adapting your security configuration, consider switching
immediately to the Lambda DSL (which will be the only one supported in
Spring Security 7):

- https://spring.io/blog/2019/11/21/spring-security-lambda-dsl

- https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/migration-7/configuration.html


## Lombok upgrade

Spring Boot 2.7 has upgraded to [Lombok
1.18.30](https://github.com/projectlombok/lombok/blob/master/doc/changelog.markdown#v11830-september-20th-2023)
from 1.18.26.

In one of the client projects, we gotten bitten by the "IMPROBABLE
BREAKING CHANGE" in [Lombok
1.18.24](https://github.com/projectlombok/lombok/blob/master/doc/changelog.markdown#v11824-april-18th-2022). Note
that it's not just "copy some of these new annotations", but also
actually introduces null checks. This includes for instance
`javax.annotation.Nonnull`.

What's even weirder: Spring Boot 2.6 (Across 5.4) actually already
used
[1.18.26](https://github.com/projectlombok/lombok/blob/master/doc/changelog.markdown#v11826-feb-3rd-2023)
(e.g. a (newer) release). I've tracked that the behaviour change is
indeed in
[1.18.28](https://github.com/projectlombok/lombok/blob/master/doc/changelog.markdown#v11828-may-24th-2023),
not in 1.18.24: so the release notes seem wrong. But it may be rather
that change that triggered it, despite that that ticket is about
`jakarta.annotation.Nonnull`, not `javax.annotation.Nonnull`.

Anyway, be advised: Lombok might now generate null-checks which you
had not before.


## Upgrades

With the upgrade to Spring Boot 2.7.18, Java 21 is supported:

https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.7.x/reference/html/getting-started.html#getting-started.system-requirements



## Removed modules

Two security related modules have been removed, to avoid unnecessary
effort adapting them to the Spring Security changes:

- {{< module-ref spring-security-acl-module >}} was removed because it
  is only used (very sparingly) in one project. Previously {{<
  module-ref user-module >}} integrated with Spring Security ACL
  module, but that integration is obviously also removed now.

- {{< module-ref oauth2-module >}}: also used in only one
  project. This is also based on the old [Spring Security
  OAuth](https://spring.io/projects/spring-security-oauth#learn)
  project, which has been unsupported for almost two years already.


## Thanks

Thanks to Arno, Branko and Marlies for testing early versions of
Across 5.5 with various client applications.
